airmar-decoding.txt

Written by Alex Tong February 2 2015
Updated by Alex Tong February 5 2015

Update on the Airmar decoding,
Have yet to power up the sensor, however initial testing suggests that the
sensor is preconfigured to be either NMEA2000 or NMEA 0183 compatable.

Therefore, the next course of action is to attempt to record the data so that
we might decipher the NMEA2000 proprietary standard. This will probably require
a private git-hub database to avoid copyright issues.

Blog link describing the upgrade from NMEA0183 to NMEA2000 standards.


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Written by Alex Tong February 2 2015
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This file depicts the process of decoding messages sent by the Airmar wx200
weather station.

The first thing to notice is the configuration of outputs of the Airmar sensor.
It has 5 wires, red, black, white, green, and blue. By the Airmar installation
specs (linked below, and contained in the dropbox) the red and black wires
supply power to the airmar, and before powering up the sensor we afixed a 0.5A
fast-blow fuse to one of the terminals.

red -- Vin
black -- gnd
white
green
blue

by the number of wires we have an NMEA 2000 protocol transmission wire. While
this protocol is technically compatable with the CAN-BUS arduino shield, the
transmission is not in human readable form as the NMEA 0183 standard is. This
makes it extremely hard to extract information from he protocol considering its
expensive proprietary features. One project, the "canboat" project has worked
to reverse engineer the NMEA 2k protocol, and as a first attempt we will use
this project to interpret messages from the sensor. It appears that the standard
transmission rate of NMEA 2k is 250kbps.

Given this fact, it may be the easiest option to scrap the NMEA2000 protocol,
and buy a NMEA 0183 standard cord instead, which is what queens robotic sailing
club had success with. 

Link to airmar wx200 installation guide as of Feb 2015:
http://www.airmartechnology.com/uploads/installguide/17-461-01.pdf

